# MHS

This package contains a pre-assured implementation of a Message Handling Service (MHS), intended to encapsulate the
details of Spine messaging and provide a simple interface to allow HL7 messages to be sent to a remote MHS.

## Setup
You'll need to have a connection to Spine. For testing purposes, you can use [Opentest](https://nhs-digital-opentest.github.io/Welcome/index.html).

Finally, ensure you have [Pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/en/latest/) installed and on your path, then from this
directory run:
```
pipenv install
```

### Developer Setup
To prepare a development environment for this application, ensure you have [Pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/en/latest/)
installed and on your path, then within each of the subfolders `common`, `inbound` and `outbound` in this directory, run:
```
pipenv install --dev
```

## Running MHS
MHS is made up of multiple components, and running them all separately can be tedious. Instead, use Docker Compose, see [here](../README.md) for how to do this.

### Environment Variables
MHS takes a number of environment variables when it is run. These are:
* `MHS_LOG_LEVEL` This is required to be set to one of: `NOTSET`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR` or `CRITICAL`. Where `NOTSET` displays the most logs and `CRITICAL` displays the least.
* `MHS_PARTY_KEY` The party key associated with your MHS.
* `MHS_CLIENT_CERT` (outbound only) Your endpoint certificate
* `MHS_CLIENT_KEY` Your endpoint private key
* `MHS_CA_CERTS` Should include the following in this order: endpoint certificate, endpoint issuing subCA certificate, root CA Certificate.
* `MHS_STATE_TABLE_NAME` The name of the DynamoDB table used to store MHS state.
* `MHS_STATE_STORE_RETRIES'` The max number of retries when attempting to interact with either the work description or sync-async store. Defaults to 3 
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_TRANSMISSION_MAX_RETRIES` (outbound only) This is the maximum number of retries for outbound requests. If no value is given a default of 3 is used.
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_TRANSMISSION_RETRY_DELAY` (outbound only) The delay between retries of outbound requests in milliseconds. If no value is given, a default of `100` is used.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_URL` (inbound only) The host url of the amqp inbound queue broker. e.g. `amqps://example.com:port/queue-name`. Note that if the amqp connection being used is a secured connection (which it should be in production), then the url should start with `amqps://` and not `amqp+ssl://`.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_USERNAME` (inbound only) The username to use when connecting to the amqp inbound queue.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_PASSWORD` (inbound only) The password to use when connecting to the amqp inbound queue.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_MAX_RETRIES` (inbound only) The max number of times to retry putting a message onto the amqp inbound queue. Defaults to 3.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_RETRY_DELAY` (inbound only) The delay in milliseconds between retrying putting a message onto the amqp inbound queue. Defaults to 100ms.
* `MHS_SYNC_ASYNC_STORE_MAX_RETRIES'` (inbound only) The max number of retries when attempting to add a message to the sync-async store. Defaults to 3
* `MHS_SYNC_ASYNC_STORE_RETRY_DELAY` (inbound only) The delay in milliseconds between retrying placing a message on the sysnc-async store. Defaults to 100ms
* `MHS_HTTP_PROXY` (outbound only) An optional http(s) proxy to route downstream requests via. Note that the proxy must passthough https requests transparently.

Note that if you are using Opentest, you should use the credentials you were given when you got access to set `MHS_PARTY_KEY`, `MHS_CLIENT_CERT`, `MHS_CLIENT_KEY` and `MHS_CA_CERTS`.

## Running Unit Tests
- `pipenv run unittests` will run all unit tests.
- `pipenv run unittests-cov` will run all unit tests, generating a [Coverage](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/) report
in the `test-reports` directory.
- `pipenv run coverage-report` will print the coverage report generated by `unittests-cov`
- `pipenv run coverage-report-xml` will produce an XML version of the coverage report generated by `unittests-cov`, in a
[Cobertura](http://cobertura.github.io/cobertura/) compatible format
- `pipenv run coverage-report-html` will produce an HTML version of the coverage report generated by `unittests-cov`

## Coverage
`pipenv run unittests-cov` will run all unit tests with coverage enabled. \
`pipenv run coverage-report-xml` will generate an xml file which can then be submitted for coverage analysis.

## Analysis
To use sonarqube analysis you will need to have installed `sonar-scanner`. \
Ensure sonar-scanner is on your path, and configured for the sonarqube host with appropriate token.
 (See: [SonarQube](https://gpitbjss.atlassian.net/wiki/x/XQFfXQ))\
`sonar-scanner` will use `sonar-project.properties` to submit source to sonarqube for analysis. \
NOTE: Coverage will not show in the analysis unless you have already generated the xml report (as per above.)

## Running Integration Tests
`pipenv run inttests` will run all integration tests.

When running the tests locally, you will need to set the MHS_ADDRESS and ASID in the 'Environment variables' section of
 the Run/Debug Configurations.
- The ASID is a 12 digit number needed to access Opentest, supplied by NHS Digital
    - eg ASID=123456789012
- The MHS_ADDRESS is the hostname of the MHS instance being used for testing and should be supplied in it's raw state,
 without the 'http://' prefix or '/' suffix
    - eg MHS_ADDRESS=localhost will be resolved as 'http://localhost/'



Any content POSTed to `/` on port 80 will result in the request configuration for the `path` entry in
`data/interactions.json` being loaded and the content sent as the body of the request to Spine. Adding entries to
`interactions.json` will allow you to define new supported interactions.
